CONTRIBUTING.rst, before:

Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Every little bit helps, and credit will always be given.

You can contribute in many ways:


Types of Contributions
----------------------

Report Bugs
+++++++++++

Report bugs at https://github.com/dgilland/zulu.

If you are reporting a bug, please include:

- Your operating system name and version.
- Any details about your local setup that might be helpful in troubleshooting.
- Detailed steps to reproduce the bug.


Fix Bugs
++++++++

Look through the GitHub issues for bugs. Anything tagged with "bug" is open to whoever wants to implement it.


Implement Features
++++++++++++++++++

Look through the GitHub issues for features. Anything tagged with "enhancement" or "help wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.


Write Documentation
+++++++++++++++++++

Zulu could always use more documentation, whether as part of the official zulu docs, in docstrings, or even on the web in blog posts, articles, and such.


Submit Feedback
+++++++++++++++

The best way to send feedback is to file an issue at https://github.com/dgilland/zulu.

If you are proposing a feature:

- Explain in detail how it would work.
- Keep the scope as narrow as possible, to make it easier to implement.
- Remember that this is a volunteer-driven project, and that contributions are welcome :)


Get Started!
------------

Ready to contribute? Here's how to set up ``zulu`` for local development.

1. Fork the ``zulu`` repo on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork locally::

    $ git clone git@github.com:your_name_here/zulu.git

3. Install your local copy into a virtualenv. Assuming you have virtualenv installed, this is how you set up your fork for local development::

    $ cd zulu
    $ pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

4. Create a branch for local development::

    $ git checkout -b name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature

   Now you can make your changes locally.

5. When you're done making changes, check that your changes pass linting and all unit tests by testing with tox across all supported Python versions::

    $ invoke tox

6. Add yourself to ``AUTHORS.rst``.

7. Commit your changes and push your branch to GitHub::

    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Detailed description of your changes."
    $ git push origin name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature

8. Submit a pull request through the GitHub website.


Pull Request Guidelines
-----------------------

Before you submit a pull request, check that it meets these guidelines:

1. The pull request should include tests.
2. If the pull request adds functionality, the docs should be updated. Put your new functionality into a function with a docstring, and add the feature to the README.rst.
3. The pull request should work for Python 2.7, 3.4, and 3.5. Check https://travis-ci.org/dgilland/zulu/pull_requests and make sure that the tests pass for all supported Python versions.

Commit message:

Refactor project structure into "src" layout and use setup.cfg to define project metadata and requirements.

CONTRIBUTING.rst, after:

Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Every little bit helps, and credit will always be given.

You can contribute in many ways:


Types of Contributions
----------------------

Report Bugs
+++++++++++

Report bugs at https://github.com/dgilland/zulu.

If you are reporting a bug, please include:

- Your operating system name and version.
- Any details about your local setup that might be helpful in troubleshooting.
- Detailed steps to reproduce the bug.


Fix Bugs
++++++++

Look through the GitHub issues for bugs. Anything tagged with "bug" is open to whoever wants to implement it.


Implement Features
++++++++++++++++++

Look through the GitHub issues for features. Anything tagged with "enhancement" or "help wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.


Write Documentation
+++++++++++++++++++

zulu could always use more documentation, whether as part of the official zulu docs, in docstrings, or even on the web in blog posts, articles, and such.


Submit Feedback
+++++++++++++++

The best way to send feedback is to file an issue at https://github.com/dgilland/zulu.

If you are proposing a feature:

- Explain in detail how it would work.
- Keep the scope as narrow as possible, to make it easier to implement.
- Remember that this is a volunteer-driven project, and that contributions are welcome :)


Get Started!
------------

Ready to contribute? Here's how to set up ``zulu`` for local development.

1. Fork the ``zulu`` repo on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork locally::

    $ git clone git@github.com:your_username_here/zulu.git

3. Install Python dependencies into a virtualenv::

    $ cd zulu
    $ pip install -r requirements-dev.txt

4. Create a branch for local development::

    $ git checkout -b name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature

   Now you can make your changes locally.

5. When you're done making changes, check that your changes pass linting and all unit tests by testing with tox across all supported Python versions::

    $ tox

6. Add yourself to ``AUTHORS.rst``.

7. Commit your changes and push your branch to GitHub::

    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Detailed description of your changes."
    $ git push origin name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature

8. Submit a pull request through the GitHub website.


Pull Request Guidelines
-----------------------

Before you submit a pull request, check that it meets these guidelines:

1. The pull request should include tests.
2. If the pull request adds functionality, the docs should be updated. Put your new functionality into a function with a docstring, and add the feature to the README.rst.
3. The pull request should work for all versions Python that this project supports. Check https://travis-ci.org/dgilland/zulu/pull_requests and make sure that the all environments pass.
